src/documents/parse/index.html.md, before:

---
title: CSV Parser
layout: page
tags: ['intro','page']
pageOrder: 1
github: 'https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse'
---

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/adaltas/node-csv-parse.png)][travis-csv-parse]

This package is a parser converting CSV text input into arrays or objects. It
implements the Node.js [`stream.Transform`API][stream]. It also
provides a simple callback-based API for convenience. It is both extremely easy
to use and powerful. It was first released in 2010 and is used against big data
sets by a large community.

Source code for this project is available on [GitHub][parse].

## Features

*   Follow the Node.js streaming API
*   Simplicity with the optional callback API
*   Support delimiters, quotes, escape characters and comments
*   Line break discovery
*   Support big datasets
*   Complete test coverage and samples for inspiration
*   no external dependencies
*   to be used conjointly with `csv-generate`, `stream-transform` and `csv-stringify`

## Usage

Run `npm install csv` to install the full CSV package or run
`npm install csv-parse` if you are only interested by the CSV parser.

Use the stream based API for scalability and the sync or mixed APIs for simplicity.

For additional usage and example, you may refer to
[example page](/parse/examples/),
[the "samples" folder][parse-samples] and [the "test" folder][parse-test].

The source code uses modern JavaScript features and run natively in Node 7.6+.
For older browsers or older versions of Node, use the modules inside "./lib/es5".

### Stream API

It implements the native Node.js [transform stream][stream] which is both
readable and writable.

This is the recommended approach if you need a maximum of power. It ensures
scalability by treating your data as a stream from the source to the destination.

```
const parse = require('csv-parse')
parse([options]);
```

### Mixed API

It leverages the stream transform API but input doesn't have to be an readable
stream and output doesn't have to be a writable stream. Input may be a string
passed as first argument. Output may be obtained in the callback passed as last
argument.

Uses it for convenience in case you are already interacting with a readable
stream or a writable stream. It is not scalable because it implies that you
either have all CSV dataset in memory and wish to pipe the generated
records into a stream writer or that you have a stream reader generating a CSV
data stream and wish to obtain an object representing all the records.

```
const parse = require('csv-parse')
parse([data], [options], [callback])
```

### Sync API

It accepts a full data set as text and returns the full result set as an array
or an object.

This represent a regular direct synchronous call to a function: you pass records
and it return a CSV text. Because of its simplicity, this is the recommended
approach if you don't need scalability and if your dataset fit in memory.

```
const parse = require('csv-parse/lib/sync')
parse(records, [options])
```

## Parser options

*   `auto_parse` (boolean|function)   
    Deprecated, alias of "cast".
*   `auto_parse_date` (boolean|function)   
    Deprecated, alias of "cast_date".
*   `cast` (boolean|function)   
    If true, the parser will attempt to convert input string to native types. If
    a function, receive the value as first argument, a context as second
    argument and return a new value. More information about the context
    properties is available below.
*   `cast_date` (boolean|function)   
    If true, the parser will attempt to convert input string to dates. If a 
    function, receive the value as argument and return a new value. It
    requires the "auto_parse" option. Be careful, it relies on `Date.parse`.
*   `columns` (array|boolean|function)   
    List of fields as an array, a user defined callback accepting the first line
    and returning the column names, or `true` if autodiscovered in the first CSV
    line. Defaults to `null`. Affects the result data set in the sense that
    records will be objects instead of arrays. A value "false" skips the all column.
*   `comment` (char)   
    Treat all the characters after this one as a comment. Defaults to `''`
    (disabled).
*   `delimiter` (char)   
    Set the field delimiter. One character only. Defaults to `","` (comma).
*   `escape` (char)   
    Set the escape character. One character only. Defaults to double quote.
*   `from`, (number)   
    Start returning records from a particular line.
*   `ltrim` (boolean)   
    If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately following the delimiter (i.e.
    left-trim all fields). Defaults to `false`. Does not remove whitespace in a
    quoted field.
*   `max_limit_on_data_read` (int)   
    Maximum numer of characters to be contained in the field and line buffers
    before an exception is raised. Used to guard against a wrong `delimiter` or
    `rowDelimiter`. Default to 128,000 characters.
*   `objname` (string)   
    Name of header-record title to name objects by.
*   `quote` (char|boolean)   
    Optional character surrounding a field. One character only. Disabled if 
    null, false or empty. Defaults to double quote.
*   `relax` (boolean)   
    Preserve quotes inside unquoted field (be warned, it doesn't make coffee).
*   `relax_column_count` (boolean)   
    Discard inconsistent columns count. Default to `false`.
*   `raw` (boolean)   
    Generate two properties `raw` and `row` where `raw` is the original CSV row
    content and `row` is the parsed array or object.
*   `rowDelimiter` (chars|array)   
    One or multiple characters used to delimit record rows; defaults to
    auto discovery if not provided. Suported auto disvovery method are Linux ("\n"),
    Apple ("\r") and Windows ("\r\n") row delimiters.
*   `rtrim` (boolean)   
    If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately preceding the delimiter (i.e.
    right-trim all fields). Defaults to `false`.  Does not remove whitespace in
    a quoted field.
*   `skip_empty_lines` (boolean)   
    Don't generate records for empty lines (line matching `/\s*/`), defaults to `false`.
*   `skip_lines_with_error` (boolean)   
    Skip a line with error found inside and directly go process the next line.
*   `skip_lines_with_empty_values` (boolean)   
    Don't generate records for lines containing empty column values (column
    matching `/\s*/`), defaults to `false`.
*   `to`, (number)   
    Stop returning records after a particular line.
*   `trim` (boolean)   
    If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately around the delimiter. Defaults to
    `false`. Does not remove whitespace in a quoted field.

All options are optional.

## Internal properties

Those properties are for internal usage but may be considered useful to the
final user in some situations. They are accessible from the intance returned by
the `parse` function.

* `count` (number)   
  Internal counter of records being processed.
* `empty_line_count` (number)   
  Internal counter of empty lines
* `skipped_line_count` (number)   
  Number of non uniform lines skipped when `relax_column_count` is true.
* `lines` (number)   
  The number of lines encountered in the source dataset, start at 1 for the
  first line.
* `is_int` (regexp, function)   
  The regular expression or function used to determine if a value should be
  cast to an integer.
* `is_float` (regexp, function)   
  The regular expression or function used to determine if a value should be
  cast to a float.

## Casting context

The `cast` option accept a function which provides full control over a field.
The function is called with 2 arguments: the field value and a context object.
The context object accept the following properties: 

* `column`   
  The column name if the `columns` options is defined or the field index.
* `count`   
  The number of records which have been fully parsed.
* `index`   
  The field position.
* `header`   
  A boolean indicating if the records being parsed is the header.
* `quoting`   
  A boolean indicating if the field was surrounded by quotes.
* `lines`   
  The number of lines which have been processed including the current line.

## Migration

Most of the generator is imported from its parent project [CSV][csv] in an
effort to split it between the generator, the parser, the transformer and the
stringifier.

As `record` has disappeared, you are encouraged to use the `"readable"` event
conjointly with the `"read"` function as documented above and in the
[Stream API][stream].

[csv]: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv
[travis-csv-parse]: http://travis-ci.org/adaltas/node-csv-parse
[stream]: http://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_transform
[parse]: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse
[parse-samples]: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse/tree/master/samples
[parse-test]: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse/tree/master/test

Commit message:

columns: skip empty values when null, false or undefined

src/documents/parse/index.html.md, after:

---
title: CSV Parser
layout: page
tags: ['intro','page']
pageOrder: 1
github: 'https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse'
---

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/adaltas/node-csv-parse.png)][travis-csv-parse]

This package is a parser converting CSV text input into arrays or objects. It
implements the Node.js [`stream.Transform`API][stream]. It also
provides a simple callback-based API for convenience. It is both extremely easy
to use and powerful. It was first released in 2010 and is used against big data
sets by a large community.

Source code for this project is available on [GitHub][parse].

## Features

*   Follow the Node.js streaming API
*   Simplicity with the optional callback API
*   Support delimiters, quotes, escape characters and comments
*   Line break discovery
*   Support big datasets
*   Complete test coverage and samples for inspiration
*   no external dependencies
*   to be used conjointly with `csv-generate`, `stream-transform` and `csv-stringify`

## Usage

Run `npm install csv` to install the full CSV package or run
`npm install csv-parse` if you are only interested by the CSV parser.

Use the stream based API for scalability and the sync or mixed APIs for simplicity.

For additional usage and example, you may refer to
[example page](/parse/examples/),
[the "samples" folder][parse-samples] and [the "test" folder][parse-test].

The source code uses modern JavaScript features and run natively in Node 7.6+.
For older browsers or older versions of Node, use the modules inside "./lib/es5".

### Stream API

It implements the native Node.js [transform stream][stream] which is both
readable and writable.

This is the recommended approach if you need a maximum of power. It ensures
scalability by treating your data as a stream from the source to the destination.

```
const parse = require('csv-parse')
parse([options]);
```

### Mixed API

It leverages the stream transform API but input doesn't have to be an readable
stream and output doesn't have to be a writable stream. Input may be a string
passed as first argument. Output may be obtained in the callback passed as last
argument.

Uses it for convenience in case you are already interacting with a readable
stream or a writable stream. It is not scalable because it implies that you
either have all CSV dataset in memory and wish to pipe the generated
records into a stream writer or that you have a stream reader generating a CSV
data stream and wish to obtain an object representing all the records.

```
const parse = require('csv-parse')
parse([data], [options], [callback])
```

### Sync API

It accepts a full data set as text and returns the full result set as an array
or an object.

This represent a regular direct synchronous call to a function: you pass records
and it return a CSV text. Because of its simplicity, this is the recommended
approach if you don't need scalability and if your dataset fit in memory.

```
const parse = require('csv-parse/lib/sync')
parse(records, [options])
```

## Parser options

*   `auto_parse` (boolean|function)   
    Deprecated, alias of "cast".
*   `auto_parse_date` (boolean|function)   
    Deprecated, alias of "cast_date".
*   `cast` (boolean|function)   
    If true, the parser will attempt to convert input string to native types. If
    a function, receive the value as first argument, a context as second
    argument and return a new value. More information about the context
    properties is available below.
*   `cast_date` (boolean|function)   
    If true, the parser will attempt to convert input string to dates. If a 
    function, receive the value as argument and return a new value. It
    requires the "auto_parse" option. Be careful, it relies on `Date.parse`.
*   `columns` (array|boolean|function)   
    List of fields as an array, a user defined callback accepting the first line
    and returning the column names, or `true` if auto-discovered in the first CSV
    line. Defaults to `null`. Affects the result data set in the sense that
    records will be objects instead of arrays. A value "false" "null", or "undefined" inside
    the column array skips the column from the output.
*   `comment` (char)   
    Treat all the characters after this one as a comment. Defaults to `''`
    (disabled).
*   `delimiter` (char)   
    Set the field delimiter. One character only. Defaults to `","` (comma).
*   `escape` (char)   
    Set the escape character. One character only. Defaults to double quote.
*   `from`, (number)   
    Start returning records from a particular line.
*   `ltrim` (boolean)   
    If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately following the delimiter (i.e.
    left-trim all fields). Defaults to `false`. Does not remove whitespace in a
    quoted field.
*   `max_limit_on_data_read` (int)   
    Maximum numer of characters to be contained in the field and line buffers
    before an exception is raised. Used to guard against a wrong `delimiter` or
    `rowDelimiter`. Default to 128,000 characters.
*   `objname` (string)   
    Name of header-record title to name objects by.
*   `quote` (char|boolean)   
    Optional character surrounding a field. One character only. Disabled if 
    null, false or empty. Defaults to double quote.
*   `relax` (boolean)   
    Preserve quotes inside unquoted field (be warned, it doesn't make coffee).
*   `relax_column_count` (boolean)   
    Discard inconsistent columns count. Default to `false`.
*   `raw` (boolean)   
    Generate two properties `raw` and `row` where `raw` is the original CSV row
    content and `row` is the parsed array or object.
*   `rowDelimiter` (chars|array)   
    One or multiple characters used to delimit record rows; defaults to
    auto discovery if not provided. Suported auto disvovery method are Linux ("\n"),
    Apple ("\r") and Windows ("\r\n") row delimiters.
*   `rtrim` (boolean)   
    If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately preceding the delimiter (i.e.
    right-trim all fields). Defaults to `false`.  Does not remove whitespace in
    a quoted field.
*   `skip_empty_lines` (boolean)   
    Don't generate records for empty lines (line matching `/\s*/`), defaults to `false`.
*   `skip_lines_with_error` (boolean)   
    Skip a line with error found inside and directly go process the next line.
*   `skip_lines_with_empty_values` (boolean)   
    Don't generate records for lines containing empty column values (column
    matching `/\s*/`), defaults to `false`.
*   `to`, (number)   
    Stop returning records after a particular line.
*   `trim` (boolean)   
    If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately around the delimiter. Defaults to
    `false`. Does not remove whitespace in a quoted field.

All options are optional.

## Internal properties

Those properties are for internal usage but may be considered useful to the
final user in some situations. They are accessible from the intance returned by
the `parse` function.

* `count` (number)   
  Internal counter of records being processed.
* `empty_line_count` (number)   
  Internal counter of empty lines
* `skipped_line_count` (number)   
  Number of non uniform lines skipped when `relax_column_count` is true.
* `lines` (number)   
  The number of lines encountered in the source dataset, start at 1 for the
  first line.
* `is_int` (regexp, function)   
  The regular expression or function used to determine if a value should be
  cast to an integer.
* `is_float` (regexp, function)   
  The regular expression or function used to determine if a value should be
  cast to a float.

## Casting context

The `cast` option accept a function which provides full control over a field.
The function is called with 2 arguments: the field value and a context object.
The context object accept the following properties: 

* `column`   
  The column name if the `columns` options is defined or the field index.
* `count`   
  The number of records which have been fully parsed.
* `index`   
  The field position.
* `header`   
  A boolean indicating if the records being parsed is the header.
* `quoting`   
  A boolean indicating if the field was surrounded by quotes.
* `lines`   
  The number of lines which have been processed including the current line.

## Migration

Most of the generator is imported from its parent project [CSV][csv] in an
effort to split it between the generator, the parser, the transformer and the
stringifier.

As `record` has disappeared, you are encouraged to use the `"readable"` event
conjointly with the `"read"` function as documented above and in the
[Stream API][stream].

[csv]: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv
[travis-csv-parse]: http://travis-ci.org/adaltas/node-csv-parse
[stream]: http://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_transform
[parse]: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse
[parse-samples]: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse/tree/master/samples
[parse-test]: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse/tree/master/test
