src/md/parse/options/cast_date.md, before:

---
title: Option cast_date
navtitle: cast_date
description: Option "cast_date" alter a field value.
keywords: ['csv', 'parse', 'options', 'cast_date', 'cast', 'context', 'lines', 'quoting']
---

# Option `cast_date`

The `cast_date` option convert the CSV field to a JavaScript date. It requires the `cast` option to be active.

* Type: `boolean`
* Optional
* Default: `false`
* Since: 1.0.5
* Related: [`cast`](/parse/options/cast/), [`info`](/parse/options/info/), [`on_record`](/parse/options/on_record/) &mdash; see [Available Options](/parse/options/#available-options)

The implementation relies on [`Date.parse`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/parse). The CSV value is left untouched if the function returns `NaN`.

## History

This option was named `auto_parse_date` until version 2.

## Usage

When set to `true`, every field is tested with `Date.parse`. When the convertion to a JavaScript date succed, the new date is returned. Otherwise, the original value is returned.

```js
const parse = require('csv-parse/lib/sync')
const assert = require('assert')

const data = `
2000-01-01,date1
2020-01-01,date2
`.trim()
const records = parse(data, {
  cast: true,
  cast_date: true
})
assert.deepStrictEqual(records, [
  [ new Date('2000-01-01T00:00:00.000Z'), 'date1' ],
  [ new Date('2020-01-01T00:00:00.000Z'), 'date2' ]
])
```

Commit message:

feat: embed samples from csv package

src/md/parse/options/cast_date.md, after:

---
title: Option cast_date
navtitle: cast_date
description: Option "cast_date" alter a field value.
keywords: ['csv', 'parse', 'options', 'cast_date', 'cast', 'context', 'lines', 'quoting']
---

# Option `cast_date`

The `cast_date` option convert the CSV field to a JavaScript date. It requires the `cast` option to be active.

* Type: `boolean`
* Optional
* Default: `false`
* Since: 1.0.5
* Related: [`cast`](/parse/options/cast/), [`info`](/parse/options/info/), [`on_record`](/parse/options/on_record/) &mdash; see [Available Options](/parse/options/#available-options)

The implementation relies on [`Date.parse`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/parse). The CSV value is left untouched if the function returns `NaN`.

## History

This option was named `auto_parse_date` until version 2.

## Usage

When active [`cast_date` with `true`](https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv/blob/master/packages/csv-parse/samples/option.cast_date.js), every field is tested with `Date.parse`. When the convertion to a JavaScript date succeed, the new date is returned. Otherwise, the original value is returned.

`embed:csv-parse/samples/option.cast_date.js`
