src/md/project/contribute.md, before:

---
title: Community
keywords: ['intro','page']
sort: 7
---

# Contribution Guide

## Introduction

This is a community effort. Please be grateful to the people who write code, take time filling bug reports and improve the documentation.

We encourage you to contribute to the project. Sometimes, great contributions take a second. As an example, correcting a typo on this page would be as simple as editing this page on GitHub and everyone would benefit from it.

## Development

Tests are executed with mocha. To install it, simple run `npm install` followed by `npm test`. It will install mocha and its dependencies in your project "node_modules" directory and run the test suite. The tests run against the CoffeeScript source files.

To generate the JavaScript files, run `make build`.

The test suite is run online with [Travis][travis] against the versions 0.10 and 0.11 of Node.js.

## Contributors

Bellow is a non-restrictive list of contributors:

*   David Worms: <https://github.com/adaltas>
*   Will White: <https://github.com/willwhite>
*   Justin Latimer: <https://github.com/justinlatimer>
*   jonseymour: <https://github.com/jonseymour>
*   pascalopitz: <https://github.com/pascalopitz>
*   Josh Pschorr: <https://github.com/jpschorr>
*   Elad Ben-Israel: <https://github.com/eladb>
*   Philippe Plantier: <https://github.com/phipla>
*   Tim Oxley: <https://github.com/timoxley>
*   Damon Oehlman: <https://github.com/DamonOehlman>
*   Alexandru Topliceanu: <https://github.com/topliceanu>
*   Visup: <https://github.com/visup>
*   Edmund von der Burg: <https://github.com/evdb>
*   Douglas Christopher Wilson: <https://github.com/dougwilson>
*   Chris Khoo: <https://github.com/khoomeister>
*   Joeasaurus: <https://github.com/Joeasaurus>
*   Mark Stosberg: <https://github.com/markstos>

Please create an issue if you feel you deserve to be part of it.

Commit message:

project: contribution update and sponsor

src/md/project/contribute.md, after:

---
title: Community
keywords: ['intro','page']
sort: 7
---

# Community and contribution Guide

## Introduction

This is a community effort. Please be grateful to the people who write code, take time filling bug reports and improve the documentation.

We encourage you to contribute to the project. Sometimes, great contributions take a second. As an example, correcting a typo on this page would be as simple as editing this page on GitHub and everyone would benefit from it.

On every page of the site, a little button in the top left corner above the title redirects you on GitHub where you can make the changes.

## Development

Tests are executed with [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/). To get started, run `npm install` followed by `npm test`. It installs Mocha and its dependencies in your project "node_modules" directory and run the test suite.

While the source code is written in JavaScript, we use [CoffeeScript](https://coffeescript.org/) to write the tests. It helps the code to be simple and clear. Choose the language that you prefer, we can always convert the code.

The test suite is run online with [Travis][https://travis-ci.org/github/adaltas/node-csv] against multiple versions of Node.js.

## Sponsor

The project is developed and maintained by [Adaltas](https://www.adaltas.com), a consulting company based in France which specializes in Big Data, Data Engineer, Data Science and open source development.

## Contributors

Bellow is a non-restrictive list of contributors:

*   David Worms: <https://github.com/adaltas>
*   Will White: <https://github.com/willwhite>
*   Justin Latimer: <https://github.com/justinlatimer>
*   jonseymour: <https://github.com/jonseymour>
*   pascalopitz: <https://github.com/pascalopitz>
*   Josh Pschorr: <https://github.com/jpschorr>
*   Elad Ben-Israel: <https://github.com/eladb>
*   Philippe Plantier: <https://github.com/phipla>
*   Tim Oxley: <https://github.com/timoxley>
*   Damon Oehlman: <https://github.com/DamonOehlman>
*   Alexandru Topliceanu: <https://github.com/topliceanu>
*   Visup: <https://github.com/visup>
*   Edmund von der Burg: <https://github.com/evdb>
*   Douglas Christopher Wilson: <https://github.com/dougwilson>
*   Chris Khoo: <https://github.com/khoomeister>
*   Joeasaurus: <https://github.com/Joeasaurus>
*   Mark Stosberg: <https://github.com/markstos>

Please create an issue if you feel you deserve to be part of it.
