src/md/parse/errors.md, before:

---
title: Errors
description: Commons errors encountered while using the CSV parser
keywords: ['csv', 'parse', 'error', 'mistake']
sort: 6
---

# Errors

All errors instantiate the `CsvError` class which extends the JavaScript `Error` class. They share the following properties:

* `code`   
  Identify the error type, unique for each error thrown by the parser, see below for the list of error codes.
* `message`   
  The error message.

Each error code may include additional properties.

## `CSV_INVALID_CLOSING_QUOTE`

Thrown when a quote is found at an unexpected location. The parser can be made tolerant to this error by activating the `relax` option.

## `CSV_INVALID_RECORD_LENGTH_DONT_PREVIOUS_RECORDS`

Thrown when a record don't match the same amount of fields as the previous records. The parser can be made tolerant to the number of fields with the [`relax_column_count`](/parse/options/relax_column_count/) option. Additional properties include:

* `record`
  The invalid encountered record.

## `CSV_INVALID_RECORD_LENGTH_DONT_MATCH_COLUMNS`   

Thrown when a record don't match the same amount of columns. This error is only present when the [`columns`](/parse/options/columns/) option is active. Additional properties include:

* `record`
  The invalid encountered record.

## `CSV_INVALID_COLUMN_MAPPING`

Thrown when the [`columns`](/parse/options/columns/) option is a function and it does not return an array of header fields as expected.

* `headers`
  The invalid headers value returned by the function.

## Common Errors

### End notification

Situation:

You are using the "finish" event and you don't have all your records. The "readable" event is still being called with a few records left.

Solution:

The parser is both a writable and a readable stream. You write data and you read records. Following [Node.js. stream documentation](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html), the "finish" event is from the write API and is emitted when the input source has flushed its data. The "end" event is from the read API and is emitted when there is no more data to be consumed from the stream.

Issue: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse/issues/204

Commit message:

errors: new page with current codes

src/md/parse/errors.md, after:

---
title: Errors
description: Commons errors encountered while using the CSV parser
keywords: ['csv', 'parse', 'error', 'mistake']
sort: 6
---

# Errors

> Important: errors appeared recently with version 4.5. The coverage below is not exhaustive. The code, message and properties documented below may change in the near future.

All errors instantiate the `CsvError` class which extends the JavaScript `Error` class. They share the following properties:

* `code`   
  Identify the error type, unique for each error thrown by the parser, see below for the list of error codes.
* `message`   
  The error message.

Each error code may include additional properties.

## `CSV_QUOTE_NOT_CLOSED`

Thrown when the parsing of data end while an opening quote is not closed. 

## `CSV_INVALID_CLOSING_QUOTE`

Thrown when a quote is found at an unexpected location. The parser can be made tolerant to this error by activating the `relax` option.

## `CSV_INVALID_RECORD_LENGTH_DONT_PREVIOUS_RECORDS`

Thrown when a record don't match the same amount of fields as the previous records. The parser can be made tolerant to the number of fields with the [`relax_column_count`](/parse/options/relax_column_count/) option. Additional properties include:

* `record`
  The invalid encountered record.

## `CSV_INVALID_RECORD_LENGTH_DONT_MATCH_COLUMNS`   

Thrown when a record don't match the same amount of columns. This error is only present when the [`columns`](/parse/options/columns/) option is active. Additional properties include:

* `record`
  The invalid encountered record.

## `CSV_INVALID_COLUMN_MAPPING`

Thrown when the [`columns`](/parse/options/columns/) option is a function and it does not return an array of header fields as expected.

* `headers`
  The invalid headers value returned by the function.

## Common Errors

### End notification

Situation:

You are using the "finish" event and you don't have all your records. The "readable" event is still being called with a few records left.

Solution:

The parser is both a writable and a readable stream. You write data and you read records. Following [Node.js. stream documentation](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html), the "finish" event is from the write API and is emitted when the input source has flushed its data. The "end" event is from the read API and is emitted when there is no more data to be consumed from the stream.

Issue: https://github.com/adaltas/node-csv-parse/issues/204
