src/md/parse/options.md, before:

---
title: Options
description: Options relative to the csv-parse package
keywords: ['csv', 'parse', 'options', 'delimiter', 'columns', 'comment', 'escape']
sort: 3
---

# CSV Parse options

## Introduction

All options are optional. The options from the [Node.js Stream Writable](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_constructor_new_stream_writable_options) are also supported and passed as is. Only the "objectMode" is overwritten to always equal "true".

## Available options

* `bom` (boolean)   
  _Since version 4.4.0_   
  If true, detect and exclude the byte order mark (BOM) from the CSV input if present.
* [`cast`](/parse/options/cast/) (boolean|function)   
  _Since version 2.2.0_   
  If true, the parser will attempt to convert input string to native types. If a function, receive the value as first argument, a context as second argument and return a new value. This option was named `auto_parse` until version 2. More information about the context properties is available below.
* `cast_date` (boolean|function)   
  _Since version 1.0.5_   
  If true, the parser will attempt to convert input string to dates. If a function, receive the value as argument and return a new value. It requires the `cast` option to be active. This option was named `auto_parse_date` until version 2. Be careful, it relies on [`Date.parse`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/parse).
* [`columns`](/parse/options/columns/) (array|boolean|function)   
  _Since early days_   
  Generate records as object literals instead of arrays. List of fields as an array, a user defined callback accepting the first line and returning the column names, or `true` if auto-discovered in the first CSV line. Defaults to `null`. Affects the result data set in the sense that records will be objects instead of arrays. A value "false" "null", or "undefined" inside the column array skips the column from the output.
* `comment` (string|buffer)   
  _Since early days_   
  Treat all the characters after this one as a comment; one or multiple characters; disabled by default by defining an empty string `''`.
* `delimiter` (string|Buffer)   
  _Since early days_   
  Set the field delimiter. One or multiple character. Defaults to `","` (comma).
* `escape` (string|Buffer)   
  _Since early days_   
  Set the escape character; one character/byte only; only apply to quote and escape characters inside quoted fields; defaults to double quote.
* `from` (number)   
  _Since version 1.2.0_   
  Start handling records from the requested number of records. One-based, to emit first record provide 1 (not 0)
* `from_line` (number)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  Start handling records from the requested line number.
* `info` (boolean)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  Generate two properties `info` and `record` where `info` is a snapshot of the info object at the time the record was created and `record` is the parsed array or object; note, it can be used conjointly with the `raw` option.
* `ltrim` (boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately following the delimiter (i.e. left-trim all fields). Defaults to `false`. Does not remove whitespace in a quoted field.
* [`max_record_size`](/parse/options/max_record_size/) (integer)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  Maximum number of characters to be contained in the field and line buffers before an exception is raised. It was previously named "max_limit_on_data_read".
* `objname` (string|Buffer)   
  _Since early days_   
  Name of header-record title to name objects by; the string or Buffer value must not be empty and it must match a header value.
* `quote` (char|boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  Optional character surrounding a field; one character only; disabled if null, false or empty; defaults to double quote.
* `raw` (boolean)   
  _Since version 1.1.6_   
  Generate two properties `raw` and `record` where `raw` is the original CSV content and `record` is the parsed array or object; note, it can be used conjointly with the `info` option.
* `relax` (boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  Preserve quotes inside unquoted field (be warned, it doesn't make coffee).
* [`relax_column_count`](/parse/options/relax_column_count/) (boolean)   
  _Since version 1.0.6_   
  Discard inconsistent columns count; disabled if null, false or empty; default to `false`.
* `record_delimiter` (chars|array)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  One or multiple characters used to delimit records; defaults to auto discovery if not provided. Supported auto discovery methods are Linux ("\n"), Apple ("\r") and Windows ("\r\n") row delimiters. It was previously named `rowDelimiter`.
* `rtrim` (boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately preceding the delimiter (i.e. right-trim all fields). Defaults to `false`.  Does not remove whitespace in a quoted field.
* `skip_empty_lines` (boolean)   
  _Since version 0.0.5_   
  Don't generate records for empty lines (line matching `/\s*/`), defaults to `false`.
* [`skip_lines_with_error`](/parse/options/skip_lines_with_error/) (boolean)   
  _Since version 2.1.0_   
  Skip a line with error found inside and directly go process the next line.
* `skip_lines_with_empty_values` (boolean)   
  _Since version 1.1.8_   
  Don't generate records for lines containing empty column values (column matching `/\s*/`), defaults to `false`.
* `to` (number)   
  _Since version 1.2.0_   
  Stop handling records after the requested number of records.
* `to_line` (number)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  Stop handling records after the requested line number.
* `trim` (boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately around the delimiter. Defaults to `false`. Does not remove whitespace in a quoted field.

## Choose your style

The code uses snake case as the conventional style for function and variable names. In snake case, all letters are lowercase and underscores separate words. It is however accepted to provide options in camel case. Thus, `record_delimiter` and `recordDelimiter` are equivalent when initialising a new parser. The option will be converted into snake case and exposed as such. For example, in case you need to access the `record_delimiter` option, use `generate().options.record_delimiter` and not `generate().options.recordDelimiter`. Choose the case which best fit your coding style.

Commit message:

skip_lines_with_empty_values: update empty buffer, null and undefined

src/md/parse/options.md, after:

---
title: Options
description: Options relative to the csv-parse package
keywords: ['csv', 'parse', 'options', 'delimiter', 'columns', 'comment', 'escape']
sort: 3
---

# CSV Parse options

## Introduction

All options are optional. The options from the [Node.js Stream Writable](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_constructor_new_stream_writable_options) are also supported and passed as is. Only the "objectMode" is overwritten to always equal "true".

## Available options

* `bom` (boolean)   
  _Since version 4.4.0_   
  If true, detect and exclude the byte order mark (BOM) from the CSV input if present.
* [`cast`](/parse/options/cast/) (boolean|function)   
  _Since version 2.2.0_   
  If true, the parser will attempt to convert input string to native types. If a function, receive the value as first argument, a context as second argument and return a new value. This option was named `auto_parse` until version 2. More information about the context properties is available below.
* `cast_date` (boolean|function)   
  _Since version 1.0.5_   
  If true, the parser will attempt to convert input string to dates. If a function, receive the value as argument and return a new value. It requires the `cast` option to be active. This option was named `auto_parse_date` until version 2. Be careful, it relies on [`Date.parse`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/parse).
* [`columns`](/parse/options/columns/) (array|boolean|function)   
  _Since early days_   
  Generate records as object literals instead of arrays. List of fields as an array, a user defined callback accepting the first line and returning the column names, or `true` if auto-discovered in the first CSV line. Defaults to `null`. Affects the result data set in the sense that records will be objects instead of arrays. A value "false" "null", or "undefined" inside the column array skips the column from the output.
* `comment` (string|buffer)   
  _Since early days_   
  Treat all the characters after this one as a comment; one or multiple characters; disabled by default by defining an empty string `''`.
* `delimiter` (string|Buffer)   
  _Since early days_   
  Set the field delimiter. One or multiple character. Defaults to `","` (comma).
* `escape` (string|Buffer)   
  _Since early days_   
  Set the escape character; one character/byte only; only apply to quote and escape characters inside quoted fields; defaults to double quote.
* `from` (number)   
  _Since version 1.2.0_   
  Start handling records from the requested number of records. One-based, to emit first record provide 1 (not 0)
* `from_line` (number)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  Start handling records from the requested line number.
* `info` (boolean)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  Generate two properties `info` and `record` where `info` is a snapshot of the info object at the time the record was created and `record` is the parsed array or object; note, it can be used conjointly with the `raw` option.
* `ltrim` (boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately following the delimiter (i.e. left-trim all fields). Defaults to `false`. Does not remove whitespace in a quoted field.
* [`max_record_size`](/parse/options/max_record_size/) (integer)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  Maximum number of characters to be contained in the field and line buffers before an exception is raised. It was previously named "max_limit_on_data_read".
* `objname` (string|Buffer)   
  _Since early days_   
  Name of header-record title to name objects by; the string or Buffer value must not be empty and it must match a header value.
* `quote` (char|boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  Optional character surrounding a field; one character only; disabled if null, false or empty; defaults to double quote.
* `raw` (boolean)   
  _Since version 1.1.6_   
  Generate two properties `raw` and `record` where `raw` is the original CSV content and `record` is the parsed array or object; note, it can be used conjointly with the `info` option.
* `relax` (boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  Preserve quotes inside unquoted field (be warned, it doesn't make coffee).
* [`relax_column_count`](/parse/options/relax_column_count/) (boolean)   
  _Since version 1.0.6_   
  Discard inconsistent columns count; disabled if null, false or empty; default to `false`.
* `record_delimiter` (chars|array)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  One or multiple characters used to delimit records; defaults to auto discovery if not provided. Supported auto discovery methods are Linux ("\n"), Apple ("\r") and Windows ("\r\n") row delimiters. It was previously named `rowDelimiter`.
* `rtrim` (boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately preceding the delimiter (i.e. right-trim all fields). Defaults to `false`.  Does not remove whitespace in a quoted field.
* `skip_empty_lines` (boolean)   
  _Since version 0.0.5_   
  Don't generate records for empty lines (line matching `/\s*/`), defaults to `false`.
* [`skip_lines_with_error`](/parse/options/skip_lines_with_error/) (boolean)   
  _Since version 2.1.0_   
  Skip a line with error found inside and directly go process the next line.
* `skip_lines_with_empty_values` (boolean)   
  _Since version 1.1.8_   
  Don't generate records for lines containing empty column values (column matching `/\s*/`), empty Buffer or equals to `null` and `undefined` if their value was casted, defaults to `false`.
* `to` (number)   
  _Since version 1.2.0_   
  Stop handling records after the requested number of records.
* `to_line` (number)   
  _Since version 4.0.0_   
  Stop handling records after the requested line number.
* `trim` (boolean)   
  _Since early days_   
  If `true`, ignore whitespace immediately around the delimiter. Defaults to `false`. Does not remove whitespace in a quoted field.

## Choose your style

The code uses snake case as the conventional style for function and variable names. In snake case, all letters are lowercase and underscores separate words. It is however accepted to provide options in camel case. Thus, `record_delimiter` and `recordDelimiter` are equivalent when initialising a new parser. The option will be converted into snake case and exposed as such. For example, in case you need to access the `record_delimiter` option, use `generate().options.record_delimiter` and not `generate().options.recordDelimiter`. Choose the case which best fit your coding style.
